I would like to say something about sport
and my experience of Jewish life.
I mentioned that I didn't go to synagogue in Edinburgh
when I was a student,
but I played football, cricket, and tennis
for Edinburgh Maccabi.
So I had an entree into the Jewish community.
I also used to go to the cultural group,
the Jewish Literary and Philosophical Society in Edinburgh.
In fact, I gave a lecture on Reverend Fine there
when I first came.
So sport, not just there, but in Israel.
I taught tennis in Ashdod
to some of the most powerful shop stewards there.
There was no tennis in Israel.
Well, there was.
There was a very middle-class sport
of what they called Anglo-Saxons.
It was expensive and private clubs.
Later, and in Ashdod, they set up a
local authority-sponsored club, but that was later.
And I played tennis with them.
I played cricket with Indian Jewish immigrants in Ashdod
who were port workers.
Here in Swansea, well, there wasn't.
In my time, there used to be, in Cyril's time,
there was table tennis was quite big,
but it wasn't when I was here.
But I used to play tennis with the late Mike Sugarman
in WIZO tournaments, and we won the Welsh
and Midlands champion doubles sometime in the 90s.
So I got through in the village playing tennis.
I was playing football with the kids
and introducing football because they didn't have it.
This gave me an entree to the younger generation
and the older generation,
I could establish contact easily enough.
And we were young married,
so we had links with young married.
But sport has been a big feature in my social life
and indeed in my professional life.
And I still play tennis even now.
Of course, I'm given up playing football and cricket
and athletics.
So, and yeah.
I mean, I'm a member of the Swansea Tennis Club
and I'm a member of the University Tennis Club.
So it's a way of getting outside
of the simply Jewish community here in Swansea.